rap6xx/rap620/exercises/ex2/README.md, before:

# TOC
[Home](../../readme.md#exercises)
# Adapt the generated code

In this exercise we will perform changes to the generated code so that our application becomes usable. 

- _Projection view_:  
Here we will add value help definitions for the currency code and quantity units.

- _Metadata extension file_:  
Since we use built-in ABAP data types rather than data elements we have to add UI annotations to provide a label for the columns in the list view and the fields in the object page.

- _Behavior Definition_ and _Behavior Implementation_:  
Here we will make the semantic key field **InventoryID** _read_only_ and we will add a determination to the behavior definition and implement the same in the behavior implementation clas so that the semantic key field **InventoryID** will be filled automatically.

## Projection view

In the source code of the projection view ````ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### ```` we will add two value help definitions for the fields ````QuantityUnit```` and ````CurrencyCode````. 

You can either open the source code editor from the Project Explorer or you can use the short cut **Ctrl+Shift+A**  which starts the dialogue to open an ABAP development object and search for ````ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### ````.   
 <details>
  <summary>Click to expand the source code ...</summary>
<pre lang="ABAP">
@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #CHECK
@Metadata.allowExtensions: true
@EndUserText.label: 'Projection TEST BUG View for ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_###'
define root view entity ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_###
  provider contract transactional_query
  as projection on ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_###
{
  key UUID,
      InventoryID,
      ProductID,
      Quantity,
      @Consumption.valueHelpDefinition: [ {
      entity: {
        name: 'I_UnitOfMeasure',
        element: 'UnitOfMeasure'
      }
      } ]
      QuantityUnit,
      Price,
      @Consumption.valueHelpDefinition: [ {
      entity: {
        name: 'I_Currency',
        element: 'Currency'
      }
      } ]
      CurrencyCode,
      Description,
      OverallStatus,
      LastChangedAt

}


</pre>
</details>

## Metadata extension file

Open the metadata extension file ````ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### ````. Replace the complete source code with the following code snippet and use search and replace to change the placeholder ````###````.

 <details>
  <summary>Click to expand the source code ...</summary>
<pre>
@Metadata.layer: #CUSTOMER
@UI: {
  headerInfo: {
    typeName: 'Inventory', 
    typeNamePlural: 'Inventorys', 
    title: {
      type: #STANDARD, 
      label: 'Inventory', 
      value: 'InventoryID'
    }
  }, 
  presentationVariant: [ {
    sortOrder: [ {
      by: 'InventoryID', 
      direction: #DESC
    } ], 
    visualizations: [ {
      type: #AS_LINEITEM
    } ]
  } ]
}
annotate view ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### with
{
  @UI.facet: [ {
    id: 'idCollection', 
    type: #COLLECTION, 
    label: 'Inventory', 
    position: 10 
  }, 
  {
    id: 'idIdentification', 
    parentId: 'idCollection', 
    type: #IDENTIFICATION_REFERENCE, 
    label: 'General Information', 
    position: 10 
  } ]
  @UI.hidden: true
  UUID;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 20 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'InventoryID'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 20, 
    label: 'InventoryID'
  } ]
  @UI.selectionField: [ {
    position: 20 
  } ]
  InventoryID;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 30 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'ProductID'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 30 , 
    label: 'ProductID'
  } ]
  ProductID;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 40 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'Quantity'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 40 , 
    label: 'Quantity'
  } ]
  Quantity;
  
  @UI.selectionField: [ {
    position: 50 
  } ]
  QuantityUnit;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 60 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'Price'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 60 , 
    label: 'Price'
  } ]
  Price;
  
  @UI.selectionField: [ {
    position: 70 
  } ]
  CurrencyCode;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 80 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'Description'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 80 , 
    label: 'Description'
  } ]
  Description;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 90 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'OverallStatus'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 90 , 
    label: 'OverallStatus'
  } ]
  OverallStatus;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  createdby;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  createdat;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 120 , 
    importance: #HIGH
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 120 
  } ]
  lastchangedby;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  LastChangedAt;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  locallastchangedat;
}
</pre>
</details>

## Behavior definition

Open the behavior defintion ````ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_### ```` and add the field **InventoryID** to the list of fields that are marked as readonly and add a determination **CalculateInventoryID** for the field **InventoryID**.

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand the steps ...</summary>

1. Add **InventoryID** to the list of read-only fields:

<pre>
 field ( readonly )
  InventoryID, //semantic key
  UUID,
  CreatedAt,
  CreatedBy,
  LocalLastChangedAt,
  LastChangedAt,
  LastChangedBy;

</pre>


2. add the following line of code right before the mapping section.

<pre>
determination CalculateInventoryID on save { create; }
</pre>

> Once you have added the determination to the behavior definition you will get a warning that the determination is not implemented yet.


   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0000.png)

3. Click on the warning icon 

4. Choose the quick fix **add method for determination caculateinventoryid of entity ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_###**  

   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0010.png)
   

5. The editor for the behavior implementation class opens and you will see the warning _The entity "ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_AF3" does not have a determination "CALCULATEINVENTORYID"._

   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0025.png)

6. Press Save all.

   > This will save the behavior definition as well as the behavior implementationand it will remove the error message in the behavior implementation class. 

   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0030.png)
   

7. Activate your changes.   

</details>

## Behavior implementation

The behavior implementation class ````ZRAP620_BP_INVENTORYTP_###```` is automatically opened with the tab **Local Types** for the local handler class ````lcl_handler```` .
The quick fix has added a method ````CalculateInventoryID```` with an (empty) implementation for the determination that shall calculate the semantic key InventoryID. 

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand the steps ...</summary>

 ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0020.png)

1. Add the code shown below to implement the determination for the field **InventoryID**
  
> The implementation of the behavior defintion must (for technical reasons) take place in local classes that follow the naming convention **lhc_handler** when being generated with the wizard and **lhc_\<EntityName\>** (here **lhc_Inventory**) if being generated by ADT using a quick fix.  
> We suggest to use the source code shown below to implement the calculation of the semantic key of our managed business object for inventory data. In a productive application you would rather use a number range.  
> To keep our implementation simple we will use the approach to simply count the number of objects that are available.   
> By a simple increment of this number we get a semantic key which is readable by the users of our application.



 <pre lang="ABAP"> 
 
METHOD CalculateInventoryID.

    "Ensure idempotence
    READ ENTITIES OF zrap620_r_inventorytp_### IN LOCAL MODE
      ENTITY Inventory
        FIELDS ( InventoryID )
        WITH CORRESPONDING #( keys )
      RESULT DATA(inventories).

    DELETE inventories WHERE InventoryID IS NOT INITIAL.
    CHECK inventories IS NOT INITIAL.

    "Get max travelID
    SELECT SINGLE FROM zrap620_inven### FIELDS MAX( inventory_id ) INTO @DATA(max_inventory).

    "update involved instances
    MODIFY ENTITIES OF zrap620_r_inventorytp_### IN LOCAL MODE
      ENTITY Inventory
        UPDATE FIELDS ( InventoryID )
        WITH VALUE #( FOR inventory IN inventories INDEX INTO i (
                           %tky      = inventory-%tky
                           inventoryID  = max_inventory + i ) )
    REPORTED DATA(lt_reported).

    "fill reported
    reported = CORRESPONDING #( DEEP lt_reported ).
  ENDMETHOD.

ENDMETHOD.
 
</pre>
   
 7. Replace the placeholders <b>####</b> with your group number **(Ctrl+F)**.
 
 8. Activate your changes **(Ctrl+F3)**

 ![Replace the placeholders](images/bil_replace_placeholders_0000.png)

</details>

# Test your changes

After having performed all the changes mentioned above we can use the SAP Fiori Elements preview in ADT to test our updated implementation.   

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand the steps ...</summary>

1. Open the service binding **`ZRAP620_UI_INVENTOR_O4_###`**
2. Start the SAP Fiori elements preview.
   - Select the entity set **Inventory**  
   - Press the **Preview** button 

   ![Test implementation - Step 1](images/preview_fe_000.png)

3. Test the implementation. 
  - Press the **Create** button.
  - Enter an arbritray product name
  - Press **Create**
  
    ![Test implementation - Step 2](images/preview_fe_005.png)
    ![Test implementation - Step 3](images/preview_fe_010.png)
  
2. Check the numbering for the semantic key **InventoryID**.

 
   ![Test implementation - Step 4](images/preview_fe_020.png)

</details>

Commit message:

Minor formatting corrections
Related open issue #9:
```
Following points are missing from the Exercise 2:
Title

Exercise 2: Adapt the generated code
Introduction and Hyperlink and bulletpoints for the chapters
Chapters

Exercise 2.X ... is missing
Hyperlink to top of the page
Ending

Summary and Hyperlink to the next Exercise
```

rap6xx/rap620/exercises/ex2/README.md, after:

# TOC
[Home](../../readme.md#exercises)
# Exercise 2: Adapt the generated code
## Introduction
In this exercise we will perform changes to the generated code so that our application becomes usable. 

- [_Projection view_](#projection-view):  
Here we will add value help definitions for the currency code and quantity units.

- [_Metadata extension file_](#metadata-extension-file):  
Since we use built-in ABAP data types rather than data elements we have to add UI annotations to provide a label for the columns in the list view and the fields in the object page.

- [_Behavior Definition_](#behavior-definition) and [_Behavior Implementation_](#behavior-implementation):  
Here we will make the semantic key field **InventoryID** _read_only_ and we will add a determination to the behavior definition and implement the same in the behavior implementation clas so that the semantic key field **InventoryID** will be filled automatically.

## Projection view
[^Top of page](#toc)

In the source code of the projection view ````ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### ```` we will add two value help definitions for the fields ````QuantityUnit```` and ````CurrencyCode````. 

You can either open the source code editor from the Project Explorer or you can use the short cut **Ctrl+Shift+A**  which starts the dialogue to open an ABAP development object and search for ````ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### ````.   
 <details>
  <summary>Click to expand the source code ...</summary>
<pre lang="ABAP">
@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #CHECK
@Metadata.allowExtensions: true
@EndUserText.label: 'Projection TEST BUG View for ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_###'
define root view entity ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_###
  provider contract transactional_query
  as projection on ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_###
{
  key UUID,
      InventoryID,
      ProductID,
      Quantity,
      @Consumption.valueHelpDefinition: [ {
      entity: {
        name: 'I_UnitOfMeasure',
        element: 'UnitOfMeasure'
      }
      } ]
      QuantityUnit,
      Price,
      @Consumption.valueHelpDefinition: [ {
      entity: {
        name: 'I_Currency',
        element: 'Currency'
      }
      } ]
      CurrencyCode,
      Description,
      OverallStatus,
      LastChangedAt

}


</pre>
</details>

## Metadata extension file
[^Top of page](#toc)

Open the metadata extension file ````ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### ````. Replace the complete source code with the following code snippet and use search and replace to change the placeholder ````###````.

 <details>
  <summary>Click to expand the source code ...</summary>
<pre>
@Metadata.layer: #CUSTOMER
@UI: {
  headerInfo: {
    typeName: 'Inventory', 
    typeNamePlural: 'Inventorys', 
    title: {
      type: #STANDARD, 
      label: 'Inventory', 
      value: 'InventoryID'
    }
  }, 
  presentationVariant: [ {
    sortOrder: [ {
      by: 'InventoryID', 
      direction: #DESC
    } ], 
    visualizations: [ {
      type: #AS_LINEITEM
    } ]
  } ]
}
annotate view ZRAP620_C_INVENTORYTP_### with
{
  @UI.facet: [ {
    id: 'idCollection', 
    type: #COLLECTION, 
    label: 'Inventory', 
    position: 10 
  }, 
  {
    id: 'idIdentification', 
    parentId: 'idCollection', 
    type: #IDENTIFICATION_REFERENCE, 
    label: 'General Information', 
    position: 10 
  } ]
  @UI.hidden: true
  UUID;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 20 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'InventoryID'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 20, 
    label: 'InventoryID'
  } ]
  @UI.selectionField: [ {
    position: 20 
  } ]
  InventoryID;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 30 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'ProductID'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 30 , 
    label: 'ProductID'
  } ]
  ProductID;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 40 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'Quantity'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 40 , 
    label: 'Quantity'
  } ]
  Quantity;
  
  @UI.selectionField: [ {
    position: 50 
  } ]
  QuantityUnit;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 60 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'Price'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 60 , 
    label: 'Price'
  } ]
  Price;
  
  @UI.selectionField: [ {
    position: 70 
  } ]
  CurrencyCode;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 80 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'Description'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 80 , 
    label: 'Description'
  } ]
  Description;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 90 , 
    importance: #HIGH, 
    label: 'OverallStatus'
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 90 , 
    label: 'OverallStatus'
  } ]
  OverallStatus;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  createdby;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  createdat;
  
  @UI.lineItem: [ {
    position: 120 , 
    importance: #HIGH
  } ]
  @UI.identification: [ {
    position: 120 
  } ]
  lastchangedby;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  LastChangedAt;
  
  @UI.hidden: true
  locallastchangedat;
}
</pre>
</details>

## Behavior definition
[^Top of page](#toc)

Open the behavior defintion ````ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_### ```` and add the field **InventoryID** to the list of fields that are marked as readonly and add a determination **CalculateInventoryID** for the field **InventoryID**.

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand the steps ...</summary>

1. Add **InventoryID** to the list of read-only fields:

<pre>
 field ( readonly )
  InventoryID, //semantic key
  UUID,
  CreatedAt,
  CreatedBy,
  LocalLastChangedAt,
  LastChangedAt,
  LastChangedBy;

</pre>


2. add the following line of code right before the mapping section.

<pre>
determination CalculateInventoryID on save { create; }
</pre>

> Once you have added the determination to the behavior definition you will get a warning that the determination is not implemented yet.


   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0000.png)

3. Click on the warning icon 

4. Choose the quick fix **add method for determination caculateinventoryid of entity ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_###**  

   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0010.png)
   

5. The editor for the behavior implementation class opens and you will see the warning _The entity "ZRAP620_R_INVENTORYTP_AF3" does not have a determination "CALCULATEINVENTORYID"._

   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0025.png)

6. Press Save all.

   > This will save the behavior definition as well as the behavior implementationand it will remove the error message in the behavior implementation class. 

   ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0030.png)
   

7. Activate your changes.   

</details>

## Behavior implementation
[^Top of page](#toc)

The behavior implementation class ````ZRAP620_BP_INVENTORYTP_###```` is automatically opened with the tab **Local Types** for the local handler class ````lcl_handler```` .
The quick fix has added a method ````CalculateInventoryID```` with an (empty) implementation for the determination that shall calculate the semantic key InventoryID. 

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand the steps ...</summary>

 ![Open Behavior Implementation](images/bdef_add_determination_0020.png)

1. Add the code shown below to implement the determination for the field **InventoryID**
  
> The implementation of the behavior defintion must (for technical reasons) take place in local classes that follow the naming convention **lhc_handler** when being generated with the wizard and **lhc_\<EntityName\>** (here **lhc_Inventory**) if being generated by ADT using a quick fix.  
> We suggest to use the source code shown below to implement the calculation of the semantic key of our managed business object for inventory data. In a productive application you would rather use a number range.  
> To keep our implementation simple we will use the approach to simply count the number of objects that are available.   
> By a simple increment of this number we get a semantic key which is readable by the users of our application.



 <pre lang="ABAP"> 
 
METHOD CalculateInventoryID.

    "Ensure idempotence
    READ ENTITIES OF zrap620_r_inventorytp_### IN LOCAL MODE
      ENTITY Inventory
        FIELDS ( InventoryID )
        WITH CORRESPONDING #( keys )
      RESULT DATA(inventories).

    DELETE inventories WHERE InventoryID IS NOT INITIAL.
    CHECK inventories IS NOT INITIAL.

    "Get max travelID
    SELECT SINGLE FROM zrap620_inven### FIELDS MAX( inventory_id ) INTO @DATA(max_inventory).

    "update involved instances
    MODIFY ENTITIES OF zrap620_r_inventorytp_### IN LOCAL MODE
      ENTITY Inventory
        UPDATE FIELDS ( InventoryID )
        WITH VALUE #( FOR inventory IN inventories INDEX INTO i (
                           %tky      = inventory-%tky
                           inventoryID  = max_inventory + i ) )
    REPORTED DATA(lt_reported).

    "fill reported
    reported = CORRESPONDING #( DEEP lt_reported ).
  ENDMETHOD.

ENDMETHOD.
 
</pre>
   
 7. Replace the placeholders <b>####</b> with your group number **(Ctrl+F)**.
 
 8. Activate your changes **(Ctrl+F3)**

 ![Replace the placeholders](images/bil_replace_placeholders_0000.png)

</details>

# Test your changes
[^Top of page](#toc)
 
After having performed all the changes mentioned above we can use the SAP Fiori Elements preview in ADT to test our updated implementation.   

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand the steps ...</summary>

1. Open the service binding **`ZRAP620_UI_INVENTOR_O4_###`**
2. Start the SAP Fiori elements preview.
   - Select the entity set **Inventory**  
   - Press the **Preview** button 

   ![Test implementation - Step 1](images/preview_fe_000.png)

3. Test the implementation. 
  - Press the **Create** button.
  - Enter an arbritray product name
  - Press **Create**
  
    ![Test implementation - Step 2](images/preview_fe_005.png)
    ![Test implementation - Step 3](images/preview_fe_010.png)
  
2. Check the numbering for the semantic key **InventoryID**.

 
   ![Test implementation - Step 4](images/preview_fe_020.png)

</details>
